Hello again. In this video, we are going to finish off our overview of the modern C++ features we need
for this course.
I was only planning to make four videos, but there is slightly too much material.
If we want to make a class that cannot be copied in traditional C++, the only way to do this was to
declare the copy constructor and the assignment operator as private.
Actually, let's look at that in the compiler.
I've got a class here which has a private copy constructor and assignment operator. Visual C++ has put
a squiggle there, even though I've turned off all the squiggles in the menus!
We've also got a default constructor, which is public.
If we don't have that, we can't create any objects of this class.
So let's start off by doing that.
So there we are, that's all okay, just calling the default constructor.
If we try to call the copy constructor, we get a compiler error, it says "cannot access private member".
The copy constructor is private, so it can't be called from outside the class.
And if we do the same for the assignment operator, we have the same problem, "cannot access private
member".
So that would be how to make a class which can't be copied in traditional C++.
In modern C++, you can just say that the function equals delete.
So this applies to all the special functions: default constructor, copy constructor, assignment
operator, move constructor and move assignment operator.
When you say "equals delete", the compiler will pretend they do not exist.
So this is another way to prevent an object from being copied and it's probably a bit nicer than making
things private.
Instead of putting "equals delete", we can put "equals default", and this means that we want a default
version of that special member function.
So, for example, if we put the copy constructor equals default.
That means that we want the compiler to generate a default copy constructor for us, which will call
the copy constructor of all the members of the class.
This is useful for two reasons.
First of all, you can see immediately from looking at the class which special member functions it has.
If you rely on the compiler to generate them for you, then you are doing it implicitly, which means
you have to remember it.
And it is not obvious immediately when you look at the class.
With defaults, you can see immediately that it has a copy constructor, which is the default.
The other benefit is that you do not have to actually write the copy constructor yourself.
There's no possibility that you can get it wrong or forget to update it when the class is changed.
And that's always good.
So here we are again with a more modern version.
I'm using "equals delete" to prevent the copy constructor and assignment operator from being called.
I have also used "default" for the move constructor and the move assignment operator.
And in fact, I can also use "default" for the default constructor.
So in this case, it is just going to call that the default constructor for all the members of the class.
At least it would if the class had any members!
(Just comment this out for the moment)
OK, so there we are.
I got some warnings about not using the variables, but that doesn't matter.
And then, just to prove that we cannot use the copy constructor... Error, "attempting to reference a deleted function".
And the same error for the assignment operator "attempting to reference a deleted function".
But I can still use the move operators.
There we are.
Yeah, so that's all fine.
So that all compiles.
So when we delete the copy constructor and the assignment operator, we can't copy or assign objects
of this class.
When we use default, move constructor and move assignment operators, then the compiler will generate
default ones.
And the final topic is random numbers.
C++11 provided much better facilities for working with random numbers. The old rand() function has a
number of issues.
The worst problem is if you want a different range of numbers, by default, you will get an integer between
zero and some compiler-defined maximum.
If you want, say, a range of floating point numbers from one to 100, you have to do some arithmetic
which will scale the numbers and that will introduce bias so the numbers are not properly random.
The facilities in C++11 are much higher in standard, but they are a little bit more involved.
There are actually two different elements. The first one is a random number engine.
This will generate a sequence of random numbers.
The second one is a distribution object.
We can use this to scale the sequence of numbers.
So if we want floating point numbers between one and 100, we just create a distribution object, which
does that. You can also use different statistical distributions. For random numbers,
we normally want a uniform distribution, which means that each number is equally likely, but there
are lots of alternatives, like Gaussian,  Poisson, binomial and Bernoulli.
The way these work is that they are actually callable objects. When you call the random number engine, it
returns the next number in the sequence.
And when you call it the distribution object, it will return
that number, scaled to fit into the range and distribution that you asked for.
So here we are, we have a random number engine. When this is created, it will generate a sequence of
random numbers.
And then we create a distribution. In this case, we want ints between zero and 100, so we use
the integer version with the parameter as int and the constructor arguments are zero and 100.
Let's see what that does.
So there we are, we have 10 random integers between zero and 100.
So the way this works is that we call the distribution object and we give the engine as the argument
to the distribution call.
So this will cause the random number engine to return the next number, then the distribution will scale it and return
the result.
We can also use the same technique for floating point numbers, let's say we want doubles between zero
and one. So we use a floating point distribution.
We give the parameter as double and the constructor arguments are zero and one.
And then we call the distribution with the engine as argument again.
And then we have 10 floating-point random numbers between zero and one.
Normally, these engine and distribution instances should be made global or static.
The reason is that creating them is fairly time consuming.
When you create a random number engine, it generates the entire sequence of random numbers in its constructor.
Every time you create a new engine,
the sequence starts again.
So if you are not using a "seed", you will get the same numbers every time.
And in most applications, you're only going to need one random number engine anyway.
So there we are.
That's the end of the C++11 features. Some of these may seem a bit of a diversion or a bit irrelevant,
but they are all used in the course, and I hope you will find them useful.
Okay, so that's enough language features!
Let's start doing some multithreading!